---
layout: post
title:  "594.Longest Harmonious Subsequence"
categories: leetcode
tags:  easy Python Dictionary
author: Eqicfeng
---

* content
{:toc}

## Description

We define a harmonious array is an array where the difference between its maximum value and its minimum value is exactly 1.

Now, given an integer array, you need to find the length of its longest harmonious subsequence among all its possible subsequences.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** [1,3,2,2,5,2,3,7]  
**Output:** 5  
**Explanation:** The longest harmonious subsequence is [3,2,2,2,3].  

**Note:** The length of the input array will not exceed 20,000.

## Solution

At first I thought I can use sorting to our advantage since we are concerned only with the count of elements which are at a difference of 1. If we sort the given numsnums array, the related elements will get arranged close to each other. Thus, we can traverse over the sorted array, and find the count of similar elements and elements one larger than the current ones, which occur consecutively(all the similar elements will be lying consecutively now). Initially, this value is stored in `prev_count` variable. Then, if we encounter an element which is just 1 larger than the last elements, we count the occurences of such elements as well. This value is stored in `cur` variable.

Thus, now for the harmonic subsequence comprised of only these two elements is a subsequence of length `cur + pre`. This result is stored in resres for each subsequence found. When we move forward to considering the next set of similar consecutive elements, we need to update the `pre` with the countcount's value, since now countcount will act as the count of the elements 1 lesser than the next elements encountered. The value of resres is always updated to be the larger of previous `res` and the current `cur + pre` value.

When we are done traversing over the whole array, the value of resres gives us the required result.

```python
class Solution(object):
    def findLHS(self, nums):
        """
        :type nums: List[int]
        :rtype: int
        """
        nums=sorted(nums)
        pre,r,i=1,0,0
        while i<len(nums):
            cur = 1
            if i > 0 and nums[i] - nums[i-1]==1:
                while i < len(nums)-1 and nums[i] == nums[i+1]:
                    cur+=1
                    i+=1
                r=max(r,cur+pre)
                pre=cur
            else:
                while i < len(nums)-1 and nums[i] == nums[i+1]:
                    cur+=1
                    i+=1
                pre=cur
            i+=1
        return r      
```

**Complexity Analysis**

-Time complexity : O(nlogn). Sorting takes O(nlogn) time.

-Space complexity : O(logn). logn space is required by sorting in average case.

## Better Solution

In this approach, we make use of a Dictionary(hashmap) which stores the number of times an element occurs in the array along with the element's value in the form `{'num': count_num},` where `num` refers to an element in the array and `count_num` refers to the number of times this `num` occurs in the `nums array`. We traverse over the `nums array` and fill this Dictionary once.

After this, we traverse over the keys of the Dictionary created. For every key of the Dictionary considered, say `key`, we find out if the Dictionary contains the `key + 1`. Such an element is found, since only such elements can be counted for the harmonic subsequence if `key` is considered as one of the element of the harmonic subsequence. We need not care about `key - 1`, because if `key` is present in the harmonic subsequence, at one time either `key + 1` or `key - 1 `only could be included in the harmonic subsequence. The case of `key - 1` being in the harmonic subsequence will automatically be considered, when `key - 1` is encountered as the current key.

Now, whenver we find that `key + 1` exists in the keys of Dictionary, we determine the count of the current harmonic subsequence as count[key] + count[key+1], where count[i] refers to the value corresponding to the key `i` in Dictionary, which reprents the number of times `i` occurs in the array `nums`.

```python
class Solution(object):
    def findLHS(self, nums):
        """
        :type nums: List[int]
        :rtype: int
        """
        dic={}
        for num in nums:
            if num in dic:
                dic[num]+=1
            else:
                dic[num]=1
        r=0
        for key in dic:
            if key+1 in dic:
                r=max(r,dic[key]+dic[key+1])
        return r
            
```

**Complexity Analysis**

-Time complexity : O(n). One loop is required to fill mapmap and one for traversing the mapmap.

-Space complexity : O(n). In worst case map size grows upto size nn.


    
	

 

